annotation tables/README.md, before:

# Annotation Tables

In this folder we provide template and example Annotation Tables for *AutoGaitA_DLC* and *AutoGaitA_Simi*. Users are advised to first watch our **[instruction videos on YouTube](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLCn5T7K_H8K56NIcEsfDK664OP7cN_Bad&si=mV5p2--nYvbofkPh)**, then fill out a template Annotation Table with their time information and use the example Annotation Tables to confirm correct formatting.

## An important note
Users have to make sure that: 
- The timestamps entered in the Annotation Table are in seconds and match the sampling (or frame) rate of their data.
- The decimal precision (i.e., how many decimals are used) corresponds to the sampling rate 
- Examples:
	- 5th frame of a 100 Hz video: 5/100 = 0.05s (**important**: rounded to 2 decimals!)
	- 20th frame of a 180 Hz video: 20/180 = 0.111s (**important**: rounded to 3 decimals!)
- For more detail, see [the corresponding section of our documentation](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Y4wrrsjs0ybLDKPzE2LAatqPDq9jtwjIuk4M0jRZ3wE/edit#heading=h.ji1oyj9y1v1c)

## Contents
- DLC Annotation Table Template
- DLC Annotation Table Example 
- Simi Annotation Table Template
- Simi Annotation Table Example

Commit message:

Added references to Luca's FIJI/ImageJ tool to readmes and updated contributor/contribution sections

annotation tables/README.md, after:

# Annotation Tables

In this folder we provide template and example Annotation Tables for *AutoGaitA_DLC* and *AutoGaitA_Simi*. Users are advised to first watch our **[instruction videos on YouTube](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLCn5T7K_H8K56NIcEsfDK664OP7cN_Bad&si=mV5p2--nYvbofkPh)**, then fill out a template Annotation Table with their time information and use the example Annotation Tables to confirm correct formatting.

## An important note
Users have to make sure that: 
- The timestamps entered in the Annotation Table are in seconds and match the sampling (or frame) rate of their data.
- The decimal precision (i.e., how many decimals are used) corresponds to the sampling rate 
- Examples:
	- 5th frame of a 100 Hz video: 5/100 = 0.05s (**important**: rounded to 2 decimals!)
	- 20th frame of a 180 Hz video: 20/180 = 0.111s (**important**: rounded to 3 decimals!)
- For more detail, see [the corresponding section of our documentation](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Y4wrrsjs0ybLDKPzE2LAatqPDq9jtwjIuk4M0jRZ3wE/edit#heading=h.ji1oyj9y1v1c)

## A helpful tool
Users working with ImageJ/FIJI are encouraged to use the lightweight and open-source [AnnotationTable-Plugin](https://github.com/luca-flemming/AnnotationTable-Plugin) developed by our contributor Luca Flemming. This plugin is easy to set up and simplifies the creation of Annotation Tables drastically by removing the necessity of noting down timestamps by hand. 

## Contents
- DLC Annotation Table Template
- DLC Annotation Table Example 
- Simi Annotation Table Template
- Simi Annotation Table Example
